Network Layers:

Physical Layer
  The first layer is responsible for transmitting a single bit 0 or 1 over the
  network. +5v for 1 and -5v for 0.
  The bitrate is the number of bits that are conveyed per unit of time.
  Focus: Transmits raw data as electrical, optical, or radio signals over the
          physical medium.
  Protocols: Ethernet, PPP (point to point protocol)

Data Link Layer
  The second layer is responsible for transmitting the data between directly
  linked devices, that is – devices connected via a single hop, despite
  possible errors. This layer sends the data in datagrams, that is in chunks.
  Datagrams in this layer is called Frames. Frames will contain MAC addresses,
  which are physical address, one identifying the sender and the other
  identifying the receiver.
  Focus: Provides reliable data link between two devices on the same network.
  Protocols: Ethernet, PPP, IEEE 802.2

The Network Layer
  This layer is responsible for routing, that is determining the path where the
  data will "travel". The third layer is responsible for transferring data
  between hosts that are connected via multiple hops. It determines the route,
  the path that the packets will travel. This layer is responsible for the
  logical address, called IP address. In this layer, the datagrams are called
  packets.
  Focus: Responsible for routing packets across networks.
  Protocols: IP, ICMP, ARP, Routing protocols (RIP, OSPF)

The Transport Layer
  The fourth layer is an end-to-end layer. That is, it is responsible for
  communication from the source, all the way to the ultimate destination.
  The transportation layer makes sure that the endpoints can communicate over
  different services – for example, web and email. It allows multiplexing of
  multiple services. The transport layer identifies which service is relevant
  for the current communication. In addition, the transport layer may ensure
  reliability. In this layer, datagrams are called segments.
  Focus: Provides reliable or unreliable delivery of data between applications.
  Protocols: TCP, UDP

Session Layer:
  Focus: Manages connections between applications.
  Protocols: Session Control Protocol (SCP),
  Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP), Session Description Protocol (SDP).

Presentation Layer:
  Focus: Handles data formatting and encryption.
  Protocols: XDR, TLS, SSL, MIME.

The Application Layer
  This layer provides the service to the user’s application – web service,
  Voice over IP (VoIP), network games, streaming, and so on.
  Focus: Provides network services to user applications.
  Protocols: HTTP, FTP, RPC, SMTP


The TCP/IP model is a condensed version of the OSI reference model.
It consists of:
    * Application Layer
    * Transport Layer
    * Internet Layer
    * Network Access Layer
These four layers are comparable to the functions of the seven layers of the
OSI model.

Comparison: (TCP/IP model to OSI model)
    Application     - (Application, Presentation, Session)
    Transport       - (Transport)
    Internet        - (Network)
    Network Access  - (Data Link, Physical)
